So now that the general game logic works let's focus more on finishing up that styling.
And also on adding our own custom funds and a nice little image on indie game over screen because working
with images and working with custom fonts is a typical thing in modern app development of course you
rarely want to stick to the default system funds and rarely do you have an app without any images.
So therefore let's get started with custom fonts and in a React Native X web adding funds is super trivial
in your project folder in the assets folder.
Let's create a Fonts folder you can store it at anywhere though.
But I like to keep it in the assets folder to keep my well assets like fonts and images organized.
So here in the funds folder I unsurprisingly want to manage my funds and for debt attached you find
a zip file with two funds which you can just extract and then drag and drop into here.
That's open Sands bold and open sends regular.
So these two funds are attached to this video in a zip file extracted and dragged him into the funds
folder.
Now with that these funds are generally a way label but to use them you still need to configure more.
You need to go to your app just fall and basically instruct React Native and expo to load these funds
so to use them for that India app J.S. file and I'm using the app J.S. file because that's the first
file which is loaded or which is executed so to say when the app starts and you want to load your funds
when the app starts in there you need to add import and that import is that you import everything as
fund though that name here is up to you but typically you use frontier from Expo dash fund.
So Expo dash fund is a package which gives you fund utilities so utilities that allow you to load funds
and you import everything from the package in bundles to gather in this fund object.
That's what we're doing here now.
To load funds I'll add a new function outside of the functional component because this function doesn't
need to be recreate it for every component every render a cycle.
Now I'll name it fetch funds.
The name is up to you.
And in this function here
I will call fund load async.
Now this is a function that or a method on the fund package which we're importing here that allows us
to load funds and what you pass to load asking is an object where you tell Expo and date for reigniting
about all the funds you want to load you do this by using a key where you pick any name of your choice
like open dash sense and you'll later be able to use these funds by these names.
So here open suns because my font is called open sense.
So here it's open Sands and then you add require.
That's a language feature javascript offers where you point at the path where it is fun to store it.
That's a relative path.
So here I point at the assets folder.
You fonts folder and then it's the open sends bold exciting not bold but regular dot CTF file and now
I'll add a second item here to this object I path to load async and that could be open sense bold.
No these names are totally up to you and they're a want to load the bold word.
So is that we're telling react native in the end where our funds live where these fun files live and
to which names you want to map them and we can later use these names to assign these funds to text now
load async actually returns a promise which means that this will take a bit longer not super long but
it will not load these instantaneously and I will return this promise here instead of fetch fonts so
that wherever we call fetch fonts we can wait for this promise to resolve before we continue now where
do we want to fetch our funds though.
Well we could manually load our funds here we could for example call fetch fonts like this and it would
go ahead and fetch our funds.
But the problem is we would continue rendering and we would eventually render our content and if anywhere
in the content we use text that tries to use such a fund.
If the font hasn't been loaded yet and as I said it will take only a couple of milliseconds but still
for the first render cycle the font might not have been loaded then we would get an error so loading
our fonts like this is not recommended it will very likely not work.
Instead there is a special component which you can use and helps you load your fonts you import this
component from Expo and the name of that component is app loading.
Now that's a component which will basically prolong the default loading screen the splash screen users
see anyways when the app is launching it will prolong this screen to stay active until a certain task
of your choice is done.
Like for example until fetching funds is done.
So app loading it is in the app component.
We just have to make sure now that we render this component instead of our actual content as long as
we haven't loaded our fonts yet.
Or as long as we're not done with loading whatever we want it to load.
Now the cool thing is we can use state for that and start with an initial value of falls because the
state I want to manage here is data loaded or whatever you want to call it and set data loaded.
Now here I want to check if data loaded is not true hence the exclamation mark that I know the data
hasn't been loaded yet and that's the case initially and in this case I'll not even continue with my
logic.
Instead for this functional component I'll immediately return the app loading component as the content
of the app.
Basically because I don't want to render any other content if we're still loading our data now app loading
is a component coming from Expo which takes a start async prop where we point at the operation we want
to start when this is first rendered and that's of course our fetch funds function.
So here I'm pointing at fetch once at dysfunction.
Not important eh.
This has to be a function when you pass here and b it has to be a function that returns a promise because
X BOE will automatically listen to that promise for you.
And when the promise resolves it will know that the loading is done and it will then call whatever you
pass here to on finish.
So here you need to pass a function which then actually sets data loaded to true.
So this function here will be executed for you when this operation is done and for export to find out
when does this done.
This should return a promise.
So now these two props will work together and we're updating data loaded this state to be true and they
offer to not render this content but to proceed with executing this code and eventually rendering the
content down there.
When fetching our phone system and you could do any async operation here but typically you use app loading
to load some assets like funds or anything like that.
So assets that should be there when the app starts what you need immediately and typically that are
funds.
Now you can also add on error handler here by the way and here all just console locked the error object
which we also get here.
In cases where loading that fails of course you might not just want to lock this but instead do something
else shows them alternative content in your app.
Anything like that here I'll just log it because this shouldn't fail.
The funds are available locally here so that should be laudable without issues.
Now if we save that our app of course restarts and we see no difference here.
Loading screen also doesn't really take Lang longer as before because that loading is super fast.
It just doesn't happen instantly.
That is why we need this approach.
But now we loaded the funds.
How can we now use them.
Well let's say we want to change our start a new game title here to use our fund now for dead.
We need to go to the start game screen which is where this title lives in the end here start a new game
it does have the title style and therefore down in the stalls here on title we can now set fund family
to change the font family and set us to open dash sans dash.
Bold for example.
And of course the identifier you use here has to be an identifier you loaded here.
So here I have opened Sands bold and open Sands.
I can use these two identifiers in my code anywhere in the app when I want to assign a custom fund.
That's just what I'm doing here.
Now you see that has a different font it is bold and by the way if you're using custom fonts and you
want a bold font you have to loaded with the font family.
You can set the font weight react native supports this but for custom fonts expo at the moment doesn't
support this.
Instead you simply have to use a separate font family which isn't really a problem as you can see.